---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

:warning: _Under construction_ :construction: :construction_worker:

***

<img style="float: left;" src="/assets/images/James_bw_resized.png" width="200">

Hi, I'm James!

From a young age, I loved building and creating. In my childhood, that manifested in
intricate Lego structures and family woodworking projects. In college, I studied
Mechanical Engineering, spending many days and nights in the machine shop and
electronics lab. Early in my career, I designed and built next-generation 5G wireless
antenna systems. Later on, I helped to develop and deploy autonomous earth-moving
robots.

Along the way, I discovered and cultivated a passion for building systems at the
intersection of hardware, software, and the cutting edge of what is possible. Most
importantly, though, I am excited by getting those systems out of the lab and doing
useful work in the real world.

In my current professional role, I collaborate with an extremely talented and
multidisciplinary team at Autodesk Research. We're working on building adaptive robotics
systems for the manufacturing and AEC industries. This is a sweet spot of
hardware/software systems that push the boundary of today's technical limitations.

***

Outside the office (or whatever that means in this post-COVID-19 era), I love being
active, especially in nature. Lately, that means long hikes or climbs in the Sierra
Nevada. Rock climbing is another sweet spot for me, where it is physically and mentally
challenging and requires constant learning, creativity, and preparation. It also helps
that, aside from the climbing gym, outdoor climbing venues are some of the most
beautiful places on Earth.

When not climbing, I can be found wandering the Potrero Hill neighborhood of San
Francisco or reading. When not eating salads at home, I can be found scouring the Bay
Area for pizza that doesn't insult my NY-native sensibilities or a burrito that can live
up to Honest Tom's from Philly. I'm open to recommendations on either, but please submit
a CV with your food critic credentials so I can determine if you can be trusted.

This site is an experiment. A random assortment of posts and musings. Feel free to
follow along and reach out!
